
The Comfort Crisis

I'll admit, I wasn't particularly excited about this pick at first. I'm not usually a fan of the self-help genre, I often find it preachy and this book felt that way initially. But as I kept reading, I started to appreciate Easter's writing style and gradually became more interested in what he had to say.

One concept that really stood out to me was the idea that boredom is actually a good and necessary thing. It gives us space to think, reflect, and problem-solve, something we lose when we're constantly distracted by endless scrolling and digital noise.

I found myself agreeing with many of his observations. The book even motivated me to consider spending more time outdoors and get my body moving again. As for a Misogi my version might be more about trying new things and getting out of my comfort zone rather than a month-long hunting trip in Alaska.

In hindsight, I actually took quite a lot from this book. It's made me reflect on my sedentary lifestyle, especially now that I'm at an age where change needs to happen sooner rather than later.

3.5 stars from me.


Wild Dark Shore

I wasn't too sure what to make of this one at first. It kicked off like a slow-burn mystery, and then, about halfway through, I caught myself thinking, "Wait a minute… has Justin picked a romance?" Turns out - he bloody well had! But I'll let him off the hook since there were still plenty of mystery and thriller vibes to keep things interesting.

The writing was pretty moreish. I ended up flying through it over a weekend while I was stuck in bed with the flu. With nothing decent on TV and nowhere to go, I just wrapped myself in my duvet and got intrigued in the goings on in Shearwater Island, caught up in the tension and the constant sense that everyone was hiding something.

I was pretty surprised with how much the family dynamic intrigued me. There was clearly love between them, but also this underlying current. How does a family cope with loss, guilt and tragedy when the only adult there is a relic of the past who bottles their feelings up, can't talk about anything and just lets thing slowly crumble whilst he gets lost in physical labour or a few rounds with the punching bag. It really did make me think of the responsibilities of a good parent. The lack of a mother figure really added to that, leaving this outdated idea hanging in the air: men provide, women nurture and when that's missing, no one knows what to do.

I also loved the little nature asides sprinkled through the story. The bit about Banksia seeds only blooming after a bushfire really stuck with me. Nature's way of rebuilding after destruction.

I was shocked when she didn't make it in the end. Especially after giving Orly the last of her air. But as surprising as it was, I found it more powerful and memorable than "...and they lived happily ever after"

The climate change stuff hit hard too. Shearwater feels like one of the last untouched places on Earth, and watching it slowly unravel was upsetting. You also get hints of what's happening back in the so-called "real world" and it sounded even worse.

It's not something I would've picked up on my own, but I'm really glad I read it. I've already passed the recommendation on to my sister.

4 stars from me.


The Season

A couple of my friends have read this one and rated it pretty highly, and it seems Helen Garner is considered Aussie literary royalty, so I'm probably in the minority here. But alas, this book just never really sparked my interest.

It starts with a sweet enough idea, a grandmother wanting to connect with her grandson by supporting his passion. But there's only so much you can get out of that. Most of the time, it's just her going to training, talking about how cold it is, and complaining she can't see the players properly because it's too dark or they're too far away.

I'm also not a big AFL fan, so all the name-dropping of Bulldogs players didn't do much for me. They're constantly described as lovely, wholesome young gentlemen whilst every other team is full of thugs.

There was also another aspect that felt pretty awkward to me, I won't go into it here in case I'm reading too much into it, but I'll be curious to see if anyone else picks up on it.

I'll admit I might be subconsciously judging this book a bit harshly because I saw that Owen had just finished Never Let Me Go by Kazuo Ishiguro. A book that's been on my TBR for a while. I couldn't help but think, "Why didn't he choose that one for us instead?"

To be fair, The Season is a decent enough snapshot of a young boy's footy year, the family dynamics, the ups and downs of the games, and the emotional weight sports can carry. But in the end, it just didn't land for me.

2 stars from me.


It started, like these things often do, with something small. A note pushed under the door.


"Before I tell you what happened, I want to establish that even though I very much am an idiot of the highest order, I swear it wasn't my fault."


Margie, Cookie, Twilight Zone, Roger Rabbit, family drama road trip

When the Wolf Comes Home

I picked this one as I felt like a horror book, the title grabbed me and it has great ratings on Goodreads, apart from that I knew nothing about it.

Right from the beginning it throws us into the middle of a pretty tense situation and then it rarely ever lets up.

There are defo some horror vibes to the book but I found it more like a family drama/road trip story. A very sentimental one at that. A young woman who's really struggling and failing, suddenly finds herself on the run with a young kid and she has to get herself together for this kid who really needs her. I really bought into their relationship and how throughout the journey her protective maternal instincts kick in and she went full on Mama Bear mode. I admit I am a sucker for sentimental stories like this.

When the Roger Rabbit part happened and to a lesser extent near the beginning where the antagonist turned into a wolf-thing I was thinking "WTF is happening... can I buy into this?" and it turns out I could as we delved further into the story. But I do remember thinking at that time "WTF are the rest of the group gonna make of this, what has Cropper got us into again??" and it did make me laugh.

I thought the supporting characters were great like Margie and Cookie. You found out enough about them to build a nice connection with them and then having them torn apart in the most vicious way possible really kicked you in the gut! 

The FBI dude came up with a couple of valid points. look at what he can do when he has the innocence of a 5 yr old. What will he do when he goes through teen angst or finds out what cruelty and evil is. 

This is now twice in recent book picks that I have been surprised with a main character being killed off unexpectedly. Then I loved when Mama Bear just executed the guy for what he did! And I do hope that final change that was hinted at did come true.

As you can probably tell I did love this book even though... or maybe because it wasn't the horror book I was expecting, it was more. For me, this is currently BOTY for me. Prophet Song in the current number one spot was a powerful and moving story with great writing, this one however just really got me in the feels and I was really rooting for the happy end that I knew could never be. I would love for this to be turned into a movie.

5 Stars from me!


Politics on the Edge

Gwen is batting 100% when it comes to picking books I didn't want to read but ended up finding surprisingly interesting. I'd never even heard of Rory Stewart, and a big book about politics is definitely not my thing.

Since this is a memoir, you have to take it with a grain of salt,  we're only getting Rory's version of events. That said, I found myself agreeing with him on most things. The only point I really disagreed with was his soft stance on crime, just because he wanted to reduce the prison population.

The section on the MP expenses scandal was a blast from the past but I do remember now prompted.. 

One thing that surprised me, was how ministers were constantly thrown into departments they had zero experience in. How are they supposed to manage something like the entire prison system effectively with zero knowledge of what it would entail? And just when they start to get their heads around it and make some progress, they get shuffled to another role and have to start all over again.

I'm not a fan of politics, and this book didn't change my mind on that. Rory came across as one of the few who genuinely tried to do the right thing. He refused to play the political game, made honest promises, and actually tried to keep them. Everyone else seemed to make vapid speeches or authorize reviews/release statements just to get a headline but have no intention to do any real action, or they'd form dodgy alliances, or make empty promises and lie through their teeth with a smile.

Social media seems to have made all of this worse. In my opinion, it's how we ended up with Brexit under Farage, Boris as PM, and Trump as President. None of them should've held that kind of power and look at the mess we're in now.

This was a hard read for me, especially coming off a much lighter and more enjoyable book from my other book club. But begrudgingly, I got into it, and I'll admit it was an interesting read.

3 stars from me.



Sea of Tranquility

After the hard slog that was Politics on the Edge, I tore through Sea of Tranquility in about three days. As with The Wild Shore, I've realised I'm a sucker for a good mystery.

I was surprised by how easy this was to follow, especially with all the characters spread across different timelines. That said, I constantly had this thought in the back of my mind: How is this all going to tie together? Even as I approached the final chapters, the mystery of the anomaly still hadn't been explained. But I needn't have worried, everything wrapped up nicely in the end. It reminded me a lot of the movie Twelve Monkeys.

The writing flowed really well, not too dense, just enough to paint the picture. I've also read Station Eleven by the same author, which I enjoyed, but I think I liked Sea of Tranquility even more. Maybe it was the characters, maybe the time-travel aspect, or maybe just the mystery itself.

One idea that really stuck with me was the ethical dilemma: if you know someone is about to die, and you have the power to intervene, should you? It reminded me of those nature documentary filmmakers who are forbidden to interfere, even when they know an animal is going to die, they're just there to observe.

I wasn't too sure what to think when Justin picked this one, but I'm glad he did.

4 stars from me.
 


The Song of Achilles

I've always had an interest in Greek mythology, so I was pretty happy when Owen picked this one.

This book is a great gateway into the world of ancient myths. It's accessible, well written, and introduces many key characters and stories in a way that's engaging without being overwhelming. After reading it, I'd feel more confident diving into The Iliad or The Odyssey.

That said, Achilles' story itself wasn't quite what I expected. He's trained by a centaur, hides out with an all-female dance troupe, spends a few years fighting in Troy, throws an epic tantrum, and eventually kills Hector, only to be taken down by someone far less worthy. 

I also found it fascinating how characters like Heracles (Hercules) and Achilles are more well-known by their Roman versions, and how Achilles, although portrayed as a great warrior, is more known in the modern world as a tragic figure with a fatal flaw than a true hero.

The final quarter of the book was definitely the most riveting for me. I tore through that section in a single sitting. There's something deeply satisfying about a vengeance arc, Achilles cutting down soldiers, defeating a god, and dispatching Troy's greatest warrior in the blink of an eye. 

A few nitpicks: I did find some of Patroclus' narration a bit over-the-top. His constant swooning over Achilles, his skin, his scent, his feet bordered on cringey. But to be fair, that's probably a realistic portrayal of a young, love-struck teen.

I was expecting more from Achilles' story (and had to ChatGPT about his heel and why it wasn't included in this book), but despite that, it was still a compelling read with a strong emotional payoff.

4 stars from me.

Gangs of New York
DJango Unchained
The Departed
Drive



Award Winner                              -   Lonesome Dove                 -   Larry McMurty       -   960 pages
Classic                                   -   The Bell Jar                  -   Sylvia Plath        -   288 pages
Sci-Fi                                    -   Dune                          -   Frank Herbert       -   658 pages
Non-Fiction                               -   Madhouse at the End of the Earth    -   354 pages



The Knockout Artist

I found him quite arrogant and rude considering his skill is like a circus sideshow attraction. I'd be embarrased I had stooped so low.
Eugene thinks he's been given an opportunity but it is more like a leash. He is in Oyster Boys employ and debt now. He can now manipulate him and also got Peter, CHarity and Tulip in the bargain
Pete was using Eugene and Jacques to try and get more money. Was willing to risk Jacques life as he was supporting Tulip's drug habit and was in debt to Oyster Boy
Oyster Boy now controleld Pete and Tulip as they live in his building and he sells the drugs that Tulip uses.
Charity wants to use people for their stories. She used Eugene, She is now using Jake and she would love to "Research" the seedy world that Oyster Boy controls
Jake, although seemingly in control of her life and seems successful is still on a leash to Oyster Boy she justs masks it well.
When we are introduced to Oyster Boy he is on a leash but in reality he has everyone else on leashes
Jake using men in her past is showing her want for control, seeing how she effects others, maintains dominance. She is like Oyster Boy but a level below


The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle

I chose this book because I was in the mood for some magical realism and who better to deliver that than Haruki Murakami? A bit of research told me that The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle is considered his most "Murakami-ish" work. Plus, I have a friend who absolutely despises this novel, which only intrigued me further.

It's a chunky book, and I read it over the course of two weeks. Afterwards, I fell down a YouTube rabbit hole looking for meaning, and what struck me is how differently people interpret this book. And I think that's a good thing. If a book stays in your head and keeps you thinking long after you've finished it, it's done something right.

The best comparison I can come up with is that this book feels like watching Twin Peaks. It's got a very David Lynch vibe. The blending of the mundane - cooking, ironing, listening to jazz or classical with the surreal - sitting in a pitch-black well for days, travelling through walls into strange hotel rooms where mysterious beautiful women are awaiting you.

I'm of the opinion there are two camps when it comes to reading a book like this. Camp one: "I have no idea what's going on, but I'm hooked and I want to go deeper." Camp two: "I have no idea what's going on, this is bullshit... and why is it so damn long?" I'm firmly in the first camp. My friend? Absolutely in the second. I'm curious which side the rest of you will fall on.

Murakami's writing is incredibly moreish, "Just one more chapter..." His worldbuilding is excellent. We travel from quiet suburban Tokyo to the horrors of Japan's Manchurian campaign in WWII, encounter strange characters like Boris the Manskinner, dabble with occultish politicians, and of course, we get Murakami's trademark cats.

I'm glad I picked this. I'll definitely read more Murakami in future, but I need a bit of a breather first. Luckily, we're moving on to Between Two Fires, a medieval horror novel I've been tempted to pick for over a year but assumed would be hated, so I'm more than happy Gwen picked it!

I'm giving The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle 4 stars. While the story itself didn't blow me away, the worldbuilding, mystery, and constant WTF-is-going-on factor kept me fully engaged. And I appreciated the unexpected detour into Japan's WWII history, an area I knew little about.


Between two Fires - A medevial, theologian horror

I am very happy Gwen picked this, I get my horror fix and Gwen get's any potential backlash for picking a horror novel, winner winner chicken dinner!!

This book throws the reader right in at the deep end. The world is fucked, God is gone, the plague is ravishing France, everyone's lost hope, there are no good guys anymore and everyone it seems are out to get/do whatever they can before their certain demise. It kind of reminded me of The Walking Dead where the zombies are not the big bad horror, it's other people.

I appreciated the theologian aspect of it. God seems to have gone and the fallen angels and demons are enacting their revenge on God's favourites. I liked out rag-tag team, the disgraced knight, the kindly alcoholic priest and whatever the young girl is. In a forsaken and hopeless world, redemption can still be obtained given the right circumstances.

I obviously liked the book. I found some of the pieces very dark, especially Thomas in Hell. I was moved with Father Matthew dying but saving Delphine and I was more than ready to believe how easily corruptible we as a species are. I'm with Thomsa though, i'd find it near impossible to forgive just because it's the Christian thing to do, so was a bit annoyed when Delphine kept pressuring him to do.

I was keen to hear your thought's on When The Wolf Comes Hom - You hated it. I was keen to hear your thought's on Murakami's book - you loved it and am keen for this one too. However even though i'd like to hear you loved it, I think I am gonna edge my bets and go with a resounding thumbs down from you all.

I'm giving Between Two Fires 4 stars. i'm on a bit of a run of liking all the picks at the moment.

Bearing in mind this study is for me to get my first job in AI/ML. What shall I do next. Also when I say hours of study, that means the number of hours of video content, so study will be a lot longer than the initial number provided

I have completed :

Complete A.I. Machine Learning and Data Science: Zero to Mastery    -   33 hours of study
TensorFlow for Deep Learning Bootcamp: Zero to Mastery  -   62.5 Hours of study

AI Engineering: Building AI Web Applications (LLM APIs, LangChain + more)   -   20 hours of study

I have these courses available :

Prompt Engineering Bootcamp (Working With AI & LLMs): Zero to Mastery   -   27 hours of study
AI Engineering: Build, Train & Deploy Models with AWS SageMaker -   12 hours of study
AI Agents Bootcamp: Zero to Mastery -   6 hours of study
Machine Learning with Hugging Face Bootcamp: Zero to Mastery    -   18.5 hrs of study
AI Engineering: RAG (Retrieval Augmented Generation) for LLMs   -   22 hours of study
AI Engineering: Customizing LLMs for Business (Fine-Tuning LLMs with QLoRA & AWS)   -   7 hours of study
Build AI Agents with CrewAI -   3 hours of study
Learn MCP (Model Context Protocol)  -   1 hour of study
Build AI Agents with AWS    -   3 hours of study
Build a Simple Neural Network and Learn Backpropagation -   4.5 hours of study
PyTorch for Deep Learning Bootcamp: Zero to Mastery -   52 hours of study


There are also several course that are Projects I can add to my porfolio, these being :

Learn Hugging Face by Building a Custom AI Model    -   6 hours of study
Build a ChatGPT Deep Research Clone with Streamlit  -   2 hours of study
Build an AI Career Coach using an Open Source LLM   -   2 hours of study
Build an AI Stock Analyzer using ChatGPT, Python and LangChain  -   3 hours of study
Build a ChatBot with Nuxt, TypeScript and the OpenAI Assistants API -   3 hours of study

python -m venv ai_env
conda activate ai_env


dcrops.my.aws@gmail.com
djcropster@gmail.com
Whitecup1!

Project anchor

Project: Address → LGA → Public Holiday compliance app
Goal: Turn into low-maintenance side income for payroll consultants
Stack: Streamlit, Python, SQLite cache, Google Geocoding (optional), ASGS Ed3, CSV rules
Status: App works; adding audit trail + status codes
Repo structure: (paste tree)
Next task: Implement audit trail in service.py



Of Monsters and Mainframes

This was a lot of fun. Horror, sci-fi, and humour all wrapped up in a really enjoyable read.

I think fun is something we've been missing a bit in our recent weird and wonderful book selections, and you don't quite realize how much until you read something like this.

I grew up watching the old black-and-white Universal classic monster movies, so I loved this modern reimagining, giving all the monsters a contemporary update. Part of the enjoyment for me was guessing which monster was going to show up next.

The humour really landed too, especially the bickering AIs who love to hate each other. Steward, in particular, reminded me of C-3PO dialled up to eleven.

The characters also had great arcs. Agnus's journey from unhappy teenager to space-pirate lesbian werewolf was especially entertaining, and I genuinely felt her joie de vivre as she bounced from saving Demeter to stopping Steve to hunting Dracula to busting out of prison.

With AI being such a big part of our near future, I'm hoping it looks more like this - lovable, annoying, argumentative AIs, rather than the more dystopian visions of mass unemployment, Terminators, and War-Games.

Great pick, Justin. And just to avoid being predictable, I'm adding an extra quarter point: 4.25 stars from me ⭐⭐⭐⭐¼


Dusk

A short and quick review from me this time!

You know a book is good when you intentionally slow your reading pace down so you can savour and appreciate how well crafted it is.

I loved the descriptions of the Tasmanian countryside and nature. I felt the fierceness of the weather and the harshness of the life the twins led.

I appreciated how the twins loved but annoyed each other constantly (as siblings do). A lot of their communication in looks and actions or the lack thereof if they were annoyed.

My main nitpick is a trait that is in a lot of books/movies where they make a deadly enemy and then always underestimate them. "Oh Rees is a psychopath and wants to kill us and he has a rifle, let's just forget about him as i'm sure he won't turn up again!"

Oh and that ending is just "Chef's Kiss!"

4.25 stars from me



employee_id,leave_type,as_of_date,balance_units
E001,ANNUAL,2024-03-31,143
E003,ANNUAL,31/03/2024,-4
E004,PERSONAL,2024-03-31, 0
E999,ANNUAL,2024-03-31,10

🚀 Just Completed: AI Engineering - Building AI Web Applications

I'm excited to share that I've just completed AI Engineering: Building AI Web Applications (LLM APIs, LangChain + more) with Zero to Mastery - a deep, hands-on course focused on turning LLM capabilities into real, production-style applications.

This course took everything I'd previously learned about LLMs and pushed it firmly into engineering territory: building systems, managing state, handling failures, and deploying usable AI tools.

Across the course, I worked extensively with:

✨ LLM APIs (OpenAI & Gemini) and cost / token management
✨ FastAPI for building and deploying AI-backed services
✨ Prompt engineering patterns to reduce hallucinations and improve reliability
✨ Agents, tools, and ReAct-style reasoning
✨ LangGraph for explicit flow control, branching logic, and iterative agent loops
✨ RAG pipelines using Pinecone and Chroma for private document search
✨ Multi-step workflows like plan → research → draft → critique → revise
✨ LangSmith for tracing, debugging, and observing agent behaviour
✨ Streamlit for turning notebooks and scripts into interactive AI web apps

What really stood out is how practical and realistic the projects were. Rather than toy examples, I've now built and deployed multiple working apps, including:

A Tweet Generator using reflection loops (generate → critique → refine)

An Essay Writing App using LangGraph with iterative planning, research, drafting, and critique

A Research Agent combining RAG, ArXiv, web search, and decision routing

Several Streamlit + FastAPI apps deployed as real, usable interfaces

Coming from a data engineering background, this course felt like a natural evolution:
designing structured pipelines, managing state, orchestrating components - but now applied to agentic AI systems rather than traditional data flows.

🔥 What's Next?
Next up, I'm diving into FastAPI – The Complete Course on Udemy to go deeper on building high-performance, production-ready APIs.

FastAPI has already stood out to me as a critical piece of the AI engineering stack - it's fast, type-safe, async-friendly, and incredibly well-suited to serving LLMs, agent workflows, and RAG systems in real applications.

Going deeper with FastAPI will help me:

Design clean, well-structured AI service layers

Serve LLMs and LangGraph workflows as scalable APIs

Build async, low-latency endpoints for inference and streaming

Apply proper request validation, error handling, and testing

Move closer to production-grade AI systems, not just prototypes

This feels like a key step in rounding out my skill set as an AI Engineer - combining model interaction, agent orchestration, and retrieval systems with solid backend engineering fundamentals.

git branch -M main
git remote add origin https://github.com/dcrops/research-agent-app.git
git push -u origin main

My recent adoption (Chase), has been a complete game changer for me. In such a short time, he's brought routine, comfort, laughter and a sense of calm/chaos I didn't realise I was missing. I'm always amazed just how much these shelter dogs have to give when they finally get their chance.

When I was looking to adopt, Link/Lincoln was one of the dogs I seriously considered before choosing Chase. He's been waiting far too long at The Lost Dogs' Home Cranbourne, and he's the sweetest, most patient boy - still hopeful, still gentle, still waiting for his forever home. This is one small post in our little campaign to help Link get adopted, and if you can't adopt, a share could help the right person find him. 🐾💛
https://dogshome.com/adopt/1155123
@Lost Dogs Home etc

google-site-verification=t4S8MESHhKd7SHAykPyAU5zH5pVej8RleGqSP8hVC3o

Co-Intelligence

Having spent some time studying and working with AI, I've seen how quickly it has improved. At the same time, there's no shortage of fear-inducing predictions about mass job losses and economic disruption. That made me curious to read Ethan Mollick's take on how humans and AI might actually work together.

The book is well structured and easy to follow. Mollick explains complex ideas in a way that feels accessible without being simplistic, which makes it a good entry point for anyone new to the topic.

The sections on education I was already aware of. With attention spans already shrinking due to social media, AI raises difficult questions. If answers are always instantly available, why should children bother to "learn" in the first place..

One of the book's strongest ideas is being "the human in the loop." Rather than seeing AI as a replacement, there should be collaboration. I agree with the principle of "Always Invite AI to the Table", having ai provide five ideas generated in seconds is a huge help and thought instigator than staring at a blank page trying to think on how and where to begin. Used well, AI can expand thinking rather than replace it.

That said, the overall tone felt quite optimistic. While the collaborative vision is encouraging, it didn't completely ease concerns about how disruptive the next few years could be.

A solid, timely read, even if much of it felt familiar given my own experience with AI. 3.5 stars


The Great Successor 

This was our book club's second dive into North Korea. The first - Nothing to Envy, focused more on the experiences of ordinary North Koreans. The Great Successor takes a different angle, concentrating on the Kim dynasty and how Kim Jong-un rose to power and consolidated his rule.

Given the usual stories about North Korea - extreme poverty, famine, and rigid state control, I was surprised that much of the book reads almost like a performance review of Kim Jong-un. In many ways, it argues that he has exceeded expectations in securing and stabilising his position.

My understanding of North Korean life was clearly somewhat outdated. Rather than a population entirely on the brink of starvation, the book describes a country where a thriving black-market economy has developed. People are constantly trading and hustling, and in many cases women are the primary earners.

Viewed another way, the book almost reads like a guide to becoming a successful modern dictator:

Step 1 - Keep powerful allies wealthy and loyal while you consolidate power.

Step 2 - Slightly improve living standards to maintain stability.

Step 3 - Remove potential rivals, including influential figures within your own family.

Step 4 - Develop nuclear weapons while cultivating an image of unpredictability.

Step - 5 Once secure, reposition yourself as a benevolent leader and engage with global leaders who were once your enemies.

Seen through that lens, Kim Jong-un has arguably executed the strategy very effectively.

One of the most fascinating episodes was the assassination of his brother who was killed using two non-lethal chemicals that combined into a deadly nerve agent when applied together. It feels like something straight out of a spy thriller.

At times the book lingers a bit too long on Kim's childhood and that of his siblings, portraying them largely as privileged, spoilt and somewhat aimless. While interesting, those sections felt less compelling than the political developments later on.

Overall, it's a thorough account of Kim Jong-un's early years in power and the strategies he used to secure his position.

And if I ever find myself trying to run a dictatorship, I suppose it could double as a useful handbook.

Rating: 3.5 stars